Downloaded from
YTS.MX
Official YIFY movies site:
MAN: Oh my God.
MAN: You’re in a bad spot.
NEIL: I know. guys. get up.
NARRATOR: The
chance encounter.
with a giant!
Maybe the largest alive.
MAN: That’s the biggest
Bull Shark I’ve ever seen!
NARRATOR: And evidence of
more super-sized bull sharks!
MAN (over radio):
Two bull sharks.
there’s two bull sharks.
NARRATOR: Lurking just
beneath the surface.
Close to shore.
STEVE (over radio):
That’s a big shark.
NARRATOR: Close to people.
MAN: Hold on to it!
NARRATOR: Now. a
team is on the trail of
a family of hungry giants.
JAMES (off-screen): This is
military grade technology.
NEIL: That is epic.
NARRATOR: This is the hunt.
JAMES (off-screen): Big
bull shark down there!
NARRATOR: For the
world’s biggest bull shark!
NARRATOR: Florida’s East
Coast is one of America’s
most popular destinations
for beach-going vacationers.
But there are also
year-round residents.
Just beneath the surf.
Florida’s warm coastal waters
are a hotbed for sharks.
Including one of
the most dangerous.
the bull.
Bull sharks are the deadliest
sharks in the world after
great whites and tigers.
Adult bulls average around
seven and a half feet long.
But there is one bull shark
that may be queen of them all.
NEIL: The amazing thing about
the wild is you never know
what you’re going to encounter
and no two days are the same.
NARRATOR: For marine biologist
Dr. Neil Hammerschlag.
no day stands out
more than May 27. 2012.
Neil and his team of
researchers head out to study
the health and numbers of
bull sharks in South Florida.
NEIL: It was a normal trip; I
was out with my students doing
our ongoing surveys of sharks.
MAN: This is a nice
piece of Barracuda.
only the freshest meats!
NEIL: Uh. 75 feet of
monofilament. a weight.
200 foot of line. so it
takes it down to the bottom.
and a float.
Alright. clear!
NARRATOR: The
University of Miami team
gives average sized bulls.
like this one. the
usual check-up for science.
WOMAN: If I feel
where its jaw is.
it can’t bite me.
So. I’ll stay right
behind it because it’s
a good gripping point.
NARRATOR: They keep it safe
by continually pumping water
through its gills
so it can breathe.
WOMAN 2: Are we good on
everything else data-wise?
Here I have a biopsy
and in this one here I have a
the fin clip sample so
I’m just labeling those.
NARRATOR: The grad students
takes samples from one bull
after another.
WOMAN 2: 170! 170 FL!
WOMAN: Get the total
length as well.
NARRATOR: Suddenly. all the
smaller sharks disappear.
MAN: You’re in a bad spot.
NEIL: I know. you guys.
Get off! I need
you guys to get off...
And all of sudden. one of the
lines became very difficult to
bring in and I knew we
had something big on it.
I had no idea how big.
NARRATOR: The
whole team feels it;
they are in the
presence of greatness.
MAN: This is insane.
NARRATOR: A special shark.
MAN: Okay. don't lean back.
This animal was
very hard to bring up here.
A couple of times
she just ran off.
And no one could hold her.
NARRATOR: The
largest bull shark ever
caught was 771 pounds.
the scientists estimate
that this one is bigger.
MAN: How much would you
say that fish weighs?
MAN 2: At least 800 pounds.
There’s no way is
weighs less than 800 pounds.
MAN 3: Bull cutter.
MAN 4: Bull cutter.
MAN: Can someone
take a picture of this?
NARRATOR: The typical
adult bull shark is in
the seven-foot range.
This one. just over nine feet.
NEIL: I think
she’s 1.000 pounds.
That’s my personal opinion.
NARRATOR: They discover
she’s a healthy strong female.
And her extraordinary girth
has her tipping the scales.
WOMAN: 196.
NARRATOR: It’s time to take
tissue samples for DNA and
draw blood from
this amazing animal.
MAN: Okay. got it.
Fresh blood sample here.
MAN 2: So now we have
our blood sample from
this huge bull shark;
you can see the dark
and richness of that blood.
NARRATOR: To reach this size.
she must be
around 30 years old.
no one knows for
sure if they get any older.
No one has seen
anything like her in the
United States in decades.
NEIL: Alright guys
we have a loose fish.
MAN: Loose fish. fish is not
secured to the boat by...
NARRATOR: It’s possible that
they’ve got their hands on
the largest living
bull shark in the ocean.
MAN: Okay. hold on. I’m gonna
use this pump to pull her out.
NARRATOR: They release
her no worse for wear.
NEIL: It’s like those
wrestlers who are all neck.
And it was just like...
I couldn’t even see its eyes.
because there was
just meat around it!
NARRATOR: She
disappears into the depths.
But not before Neil and
his team give her a name
that befits her size.
They call her Big Bull.
NEIL (off-screen):
In all the years of
surveying sharks including
hundreds of bull sharks.
I’d never seen bull shark
anywhere near that size.
NARRATOR: The photos taken of
Neil with Big Bull go viral.
She captures the imagination
of millions the world over.
No one thought the ocean
had giants like this anymore.
NEIL (off-screen):
It was incredible that
we captured one of the
largest specimens
ever recorded!
But it also showed us
how little we actually
know about bull sharks.
NARRATOR: They could only
guess how she got this big.
the range of her territory.
and whether she’s given
birth to more giants like her.
Until now.
Eight years
later there’s more.
Big bull sharks are showing up
all along Florida’s coastline.
Fishermen notice first.
FISHERMAN: Oh my gosh.
what a monster.
NARRATOR: 160 miles from where
Big Bull was first captured.
FISHERMAN: That’s
a giant bull shark.
NARRATOR: Then divers report
large bulls by a shipwreck.
Now scientists wonder if
Big Bull has ushered in
a new wave of giant sharks.
Could this big
momma have spawned a new
generation of behemoths?
NEIL: In humans. there
are traits associated with
being big or size
that are hereditary.
They're passed down
from parent to offspring.
And I wouldn't be surprised
if the same thing applies in
sharks that are hereditary.
that could be contributing to
the sheer size of Big Bull.
NARRATOR: It’s time to find
out if Big Bull is still here.
and if other
big sharks are her pups.
NEIL: The goal of this trip
is to gather more information
that allows us to understand
how and why she got so big.
and ultimately figure
out whether there’s even a
bigger bull shark out there.
NARRATOR: If Big Bull
is still out here.
and the mother
of a large family.
it may cause
concern for beachgoers.
Shark attacks in the
areas just north of here have
increased 37% in
that last ten years.
Bull sharks are crucial
for a healthy ocean and
they are near threatened.
so a slew of
big bulls would give
the species hope
for the future.
Neil is rooting for the
sharks and he’s not alone.
Shark conservationist
and former Royal Marine
commando. James Glancy.
joins the marine biologist
for a chance to make history.
JAMES: Florida is a really
special to me because it’s
where I first learned to
dive as a kid in the '90s and
I saw my first
bull shark on that trip.
and that gave me my passion
for sharks and the ocean.
So it’s incredible to be back
here using the military skills
that I’ve developed
over my career to
support shark science
and to go out and find the
world’s biggest bull shark.
NARRATOR: But the
conditions are not ideal.
JAMES: Well the sun is out
today but the swell is huge.
It’s gonna be an
interesting dive.
MAN: Ripping currents.
deep water. poor visibility.
plus bull sharks?
NARRATOR: They head to where
divers have seen big bulls.
near a wreck site just
two miles off shore.
This was a
drug-smuggling ship.
seized by the coast guard
and sunk here 20 years ago.
Now it’s habitat
for fish of all kinds.
And for bull sharks.
a seafood buffet.
If Big Bull is here.
she would have grown
close to an inch a year
and now be an incredible
ten feet in length.
SOT: Yeah. we are on
the wreck right now. yeah.
NARRATOR: James
sets up his camera to
check the size of sharks.
JAMES: I’ve got my camera
rigged up with two lasers;
that’s gonna help
us measure the sharks.
NARRATOR: Problem
is. bull sharks
can come in a pack.
JAMES (off-screen):
When you get more than
five or six bull sharks.
they get more of
a pack mentality.
They are an incredible
predator that understands
where our sensory systems are.
They know how to use stealth.
how to use ambush to try and
get close to you.
NEIL: Whoa. Look at that!
This is some
great shark habitat.
JAMES: We’ve got a really
strong current in here.
NEIL: It’s a little dicey.
NEIL: Lots of shark
food around here.
NEIL: We got a shark.
There we go.
I think that’s a bull shark.
About thirty feet away.
NARRATOR: It is a bull.
And it’s not alone.
NEIL: Watch your left!
NARRATOR: More
and more show up.
NARRATOR: Suddenly.
they’re surrounded.
NARRATOR: Neil and James
search a shipwreck for the
megashark Big Bull. and
other large bull sharks that
may be her descendants.
JAMES (over radio):
Neil. you okay?
NEIL (over radio):
I’m good over here.
NARRATOR: Bull sharks have
a pack-like mentality and
swarm around possible food.
They surround the divers.
NEIL (over radio):
They’re right behind you.
JAMES (over radio):
Let’s get some cover!
NARRATOR: Neil and
James nestle into the
wreck for protection.
NEIL (over radio): Yeah.
one’s on your right!
NARRATOR: Now to
get some measurements.
JAMES (over radio): Neil.
I’m gonna try and laser it.
I’m going to get closer.
NARRATOR: James’s two lasers
work like an electronic ruler
to confirm the
size of the bulls.
If one is close
to ten feet long.
it could be
Big Bull. possibly.
the largest shark alive.
JAMES: I’ve got the laser.
I’ve got it locked on.
Laser locked on.
JAMES: I’ve got it.
I’ve got a shot.
NARRATOR: There. multiplying
the six inch-long distance of
the lasers they estimate
that this shark is young.
from snout to the
curve of the tail.
a little over five feet long.
But nearby.
JAMES (over radio): There’s a
big bull shark over there.
I’m going to try
to get a laser on it.
I’ve got it.
NARRATOR: A giant.
pushing nine feet.
Only inches smaller
than Big Bull was in 2012.
They get more measurements.
NEIL (over radio):
Awesome job.
NARRATOR: But
the strong current.
with this many sharks.
turns this dive dangerous.
JAMES (over radio):
Hey Neil. let’s head up.
JAMES: This current
is going to carry me
to England otherwise.
NEIL: I’m with ya.
JAMES: How ‘bout that! Ah!
NEIL: That was epic!
JAMES: Loads of bull sharks.
NEIL: Some nice sized bulls;
not as big as Big Bull.
but I feel really good about
this as a good starting point
to take the search
to the next level.
NARRATOR: They’ve confirmed
bulls as large as those
reported by local
divers and fishermen.
While they’re not quite
the size of Big Bull.
this is her territory.
And if Neil’s theory is right.
the sharks here
may be her offspring.
There’s one way to find out.
When Neil
encountered Big Bull.
he collected tissue
for DNA analysis.
NEIL: Okay got it.
Fresh blood sample here.
NARRATOR: Now. they can use
it to find her offspring.
She may be the matriarch of
a giant family that could
include other
super-sized bulls.
She could have more
than 100 children and
countless grandchildren.
a hopeful sign for
a declining species.
JAMES: What's exciting to me
is that that bull shark was
clearly an amazing
genetic specimen.
So now can we find out whether
she's bred successfully and
passed those genes on to other
bull sharks that are in the
coastal areas around Florida?
NEIL: The sample from
Big Bull was taken as
part of larger
population study.
Now. I’ve sent that sample off
to various collaborators to
see what else we can learn.
NARRATOR: Enter
shark biologist.
Dr. Toby Daly-Engle.
TOBY: Hey. how ya going?
NEIL: Daly-Engle dangerous.
TOBY: How's it going?
NARRATOR: DNA could tell
Toby if other large sharks in
Florida are Big Bull’s babies.
TOBY: The genetics that we're
doing is basically the same
exact process that would
happen if you swabbed your
cheek and sent it into
an ancestry database.
NARRATOR: As a first step.
Neil has looked more closely
at Big Bull’s original
blood sample for clues.
JAMES: From the blood samples
you took when you caught
Big Bull were you able to
tell if she was pregnant?
NEIL: The bad news is
that she was not pregnant.
based on the blood work.
the good news is that she
had recently given birth.
JAMES: Awesome.
TOBY: Wow.
JAMES: So her offspring
are potentially off
the coast right now.
TOBY: So she might
have grandchildren and
maybe even
great-grandchildren.
We can do DNA fingerprinting
that will give us a
measurement of how closely
any two sharks are related.
NARRATOR: Is
Big Bull populating the
coast with big babies?
They head back out
to the shipwreck.
but this time it
won’t be just to observe.
TOBY: Our goal on this
expedition is to find one of
her relatives and that can
tell us a lot about the
life history of this shark
and the entire species.
NARRATOR: Finding her
offspring may also reveal the
size of Big Bull’s range. the
importance of her role in this
community and even if
she’s still out here.
The team will go
face to face with
large bulls to get samples.
And this time.
instead of blood.
it’ll be easier to get skin.
Shark skin is
up to four inches
thick in some species.
Female shark skin.
like Big Bull’s.
is thicker than male skin
so it can withstand bites
they receive during mating.
TOBY (off-screen):
Studies have shown
that in some species.
the male tooth length
corresponds to that thick skin
in the female of the species.
NARRATOR: They’ll
easily handle a pinch
from a biopsy spear.
It’ll be like
getting an ear pierced.
But that doesn’t mean
the sharks won’t react.
TOBY: There’s a bunch of
bull sharks on the surface.
They’re right here.
I mean. this is the chance
that we’ve been waiting for.
WOMAN: We're getting there.
TOBY: All right
so. you're gonna. I’m
gonna stay on the surface.
you’re gonna load
the gun and hand it down.
NEIL: Yep.
TOBY: Okay.
NARRATOR: They won’t need
air tanks for this dive
for one simple reason.
The sharks are ready
for them at the surface.
too many to count.
JAMES: Big one here.
NARRATOR: Toby is
here for science.
but the sharks
are here to eat.
She gets a tissue sample.
But then.
NARRATOR: The giant
shark Big Bull may be
the largest living
bull shark in the ocean.
And she may have given rise to
a new generation of bulls just
like her. just off
the coast of Florida.
Dr. Toby Daly-Engel gets a DNA
sample from a shark that could
be one of
Big Bull’s offspring.
But something may want
a piece of her as well.
MAN: Wow. I can’t
believe she did that.
NARRATOR: The DNA
expert is unharmed.
It’s a freak occurrence.
A mahi-mahi impaled
itself on her biopsy spear.
Now they scramble back to
the boat before the fish blood
attracts more sharks.
Crew members take some of
the fish for themselves.
The rest goes to the sharks.
And draws more of
them even closer.
This mission just
got a shot in the arm.
It’s more dangerous now. but
the more samples they get.
the better chance they’ll
have of finding Big Bull or
one of her offspring.
TOBY: There’s a ton
of sharks in there.
It's the perfect opportunity
to sample these animals.
JAMES: Certainly huge
bull sharks around here.
NARRATOR: It’s a
good sign for a species
that’s near threatened.
And one of the sharks
looks big enough to
be the queen herself.
JAMES: There’s a really
huge bull shark down here.
JAMES: Definitely worth...
NEIL: Holy shit!
JAMES: Definitely
worth getting a sample.
NEIL: Yeah. right here. Huge.
NARRATOR: They switch
to scuba gear so
they can stay down longer.
NEIL: We’ve got the
take all opportunities to
get that sample.
all hands-on deck.
NEIL (over radio):
Woah. tons of sharks.
More swarming. Down below.
NARRATOR: These are
all big bull sharks.
But the largest is down deep.
JAMES: Can’t get to her.
It’s too dangerous to go down.
Fingers crossed.
she’ll come up.
NARRATOR: They collect
sample after sample.
Any one of these
younger sharks could have
inherited Big Bull’s DNA.
NEIL (over radio):
Watch my back.
NARRATOR: Biopsies
from a dozen sharks.
Then. finally. the largest of
them comes up from the deep.
It’s not quite
Big Bull’s size.
NEIL (over radio): I’m
going for that big one.
NARRATOR: But a
healthy female.
JAMES (over radio):
That was awesome.
NEIL: We got it!
TOBY: We've got DNA!
NEIL: Just got a
biopsy from a bull shark.
It is wild down
there right now.
JAMES: Yeah. maybe 15 big
bull sharks it’s unbelievable.
Excellent.
That is definitely
mission success.
NARRATOR: Toby now has what
she needs to find out if any
of them are
related to Big Bull.
TOBY: Ooh. nice!
So we’ve got a
little bit of skin.
That’s that black
stuff that you can see.
We can get a lot
of DNA off of this.
NARRATOR: Big Bull
is not here.
but she could have had as many
as seven pups every two years
for most of her life.
So she may be the mother of
more than 100 bull sharks.
And she may still be
out here. 40 years old.
more than a foot longer.
And still having pups.
If so. Big Bull could be at
a pupping ground right now.
JAMES: Where is a
good location to go and
see if we can
find her offspring?
TOBY: Well the
Indian River Lagoon is a
hot spot for baby bull sharks.
She could have
given birth there.
NARRATOR: While Toby
heads to the lab to
work on the samples.
Neil and James
head to Big Bull’s
possible pupping ground.
the Indian River Lagoon.
Big Bull was first
captured off Marathon.
The wreck site they’ve
searched is around
three miles from Palm Beach.
Now they head
even farther north.
And into the estuary that
is the Indian River Lagoon.
That’s more than 200 miles.
well within her range.
All bull sharks migrate
once they reach maturity.
Bulls may go as far
north as New York.
NEIL: Even if we don’t
find her here in this lagoon.
we should find evidence she
gave birth here if we capture
a small juvenile
with her DNA signature.
NARRATOR: Few sharks
would venture into
this brackish lagoon.
But bull sharks are special.
They have adapted to live in
both saltwater and freshwater.
Pregnant females like
Big Bull can travel into
the Indian River Lagoon
to give birth. away from
other predatory sharks.
It’s just feet from a
residential community but
pregnant sharks.
like Big Bull.
may return here again
and again every two years.
Neil and James join up
with marine biologist.
Dr. Matt Ajemian.
to see if Big Bull.
or her pups are here.
MATT: Under normal conditions.
the Indian River
Lagoon can support.
a nursery habitat
for these animals.
or so we suspect.
NARRATOR: The goal is
to get more samples.
but the
brackish water is murky.
NEIL: I mean the
water is like coffee.
NARRATOR: It’s way
too dangerous to dive.
Neil and James come prepared
with some cutting-edge tech.
JAMES: This Remote
Operated Vehicle has
a 4K underwater camera.
and it’s also got the
Blueprint Subsea Oculus Sonar.
This is military grade
technology that allows us to
see through really
dark murky water.
for up to 100 feet.
And that’s a game changer
when you’re operating in these
murky water
conditions in the lagoon.
NEIL: It essentially. shoots
out this sound wave that
bounces off objects.
reflects back.
and is able to form an image.
And what I hope
with this technology.
is that we will see an SSO.
A Shark Shaped Object!
Can you see
anything on this camera?
JAMES: You cannot see
anything through this water
on the camera. nothing at all.
NARRATOR: Only the sonar
can see the abundance of
potential shark food.
It sees in the dark.
But will it see
bull shark pups?
Or their big mammas?
NEIL: What’s that?
JAMES: There we go.
There it is!
NEIL: There’s a
big shark coming in.
NARRATOR: The enormous
shark Big Bull may be
the largest living
bull shark in the ocean.
She could have had more than
100 pups in her life time and
she may be here in the
Indian River Lagoon.
giving birth to even more.
NEIL: What’s that?
JAMES: What do you think?
That is big!
NEIL: Yes yeah. and
it’s moving like a shark!
NARRATOR: Neil and James use
a remote-controlled sub
with sonar to search.
NEIL: Shark shaped
object confirmed.
JAMES: There’s a
second one coming in.
NEIL: Yep. yep. coming in hot.
And here’s a third one!
JAMES: Amazing!
NEIL: Okay. we’ve got
three confirmations.
JAMES: This is a good spot.
NEIL: Let’s set up
the drumlines here.
NARRATOR: A new
generation of supersized
bulls could be here.
And this is the same
method Neil used when he
first captured
Big Bull in 2012.
NEIL: Whose got Shark. shark!
Yeah. sharks on.
Woah. woah. woah. Let it go.
Watch the weight.
Hold the rope.
Watch out. just
want to see its size.
NEIL: Wow. We got
a bull shark! Yes!
NARRATOR: It’s a pup.
Around a year old.
Proof that this is
a birthing ground.
JAMES: We’ve
got a beautiful one
meter long baby bull shark.
I’m just keeping the water
going through his gills.
Pull out here again.
NARRATOR: Its DNA will reveal
if it is one of Big Bull’s.
If she’s still alive.
Big Bull’s spawn may
be all over this lagoon.
NEIL: Perfectly adapted
for this environment.
It’s an incredible specimen.
you can see
just amazing power.
Oh my goodness. I’ve never
seen a Bull Shark this. small!
Pretty much.
You know. I work
with the big ones and
I know it sounds
kind of obvious.
but it’s
literally a miniature
version of a big one!
Just perfect!
The perfect bull shark!
WOMAN: Maybe
a little chubbier.
MAN: Yeah. well. he's healthy.
MAN 2: Gonna take
a quick weight.
NARRATOR: PhD
student Shannon Barry.
will take it from here.
NEIL: So will we be able to
know if Big Bull came in here
and gave birth by?
SHANNON: Yeah. if this
is one of her offspring.
we’ll be able to tell
based on her genetics.
NEIL: Incredible.
SHANNON: So earlier this week.
I received the
Big Bull sample.
She was part of a
larger population study.
so. uh. specifics into
her genetic sequencing
haven’t been done yet.
So. I’m really
excited to take a
look closer at that and.
um. hopefully try to find
some of her offspring.
NARRATOR: No sign of Big Bull.
but if one of these pups is
hers it’ll show that
her range covers most all
of Florida’s southern coast.
It’ll also prove
that she was alive as
recently as a year ago!
MATT: Awesome. There he goes!
You see his
little tag? Right there.
look at that. Beautiful.
NEIL: Yeah.
SHANNON: Nice.
MATT: Awesome job guys!
NARRATOR: They find
more and more juveniles.
MATT: That was. that
was the first one.
NARRATOR: These
youngsters may live in
this area for several years.
growing strong on cat fish.
NEIL: What a perfect specimen.
NARRATOR: It’ll be about
ten years before they
can have pups of their own.
SHANNON: 17.2 PCL.
NARRATOR: Lab work
will soon show if these
sharks have Big Bull’s DNA.
And. there’s one
more lead to follow.
To get to the
size of Big Bull.
a shark’s gotta eat. and
they may have just found
her favorite spot to hunt.
35 miles south.
outside Jupiter Inlet.
a shark around the size of
Big Bull has just been spotted
from the air. gorging on fish.
Could it be Big Bull or one
of her supersized offspring?
NARRATOR: Neil’s colleague
Dr. Steve Kajiura studies
shark movements from
500 feet above the ocean.
MAN (over radio): What
kind of survey are you doing?
STEVE (over radio): Uh.
We’re counting sharks
along the beach here.
MAN (over radio): Oh nice.
NARRATOR: But down
below. it’s not the
crystal clear
ocean you’d expect.
Dark clouds sprawl
across the shallows.
Look more closely.
and they move.
MAN (over radio): Wow look
at that bait around the pier.
wow that was cool.
NARRATOR: This
is the mullet run.
millions of bait fish.
and they are under attack.
MAN (over radio): Oh.
big ball of bait fish and
some sharks hittin’ it.
NARRATOR: It’s the easiest
meal of the year for tarpons.
And sharks.
NARRATOR: There’s a
feeding frenzy just outside of
Florida’s Jupiter Inlet.
the mullet run.
Mega-shark Big Bull or her
offspring might be feeding
within it right now.
Dr. Steve Kajiura watches
this food-chain in action.
STEVE (off-screen): When
these bait fish are here
in. in large numbers.
it brings in the
bigger predators like
the. uh. like the sharks.
NARRATOR: Under
attack from below.
the mullet scramble.
Black tip sharks. and
tarpons move in first.
STEVE (over radio): We
have a ball of baitfish.
followed by more baitfish
that were bisected by a...
is that a shark or
tarpon on the outside?
NARRATOR: Then.
STEVE (over radio): Loads
of sharks down there.
Whoa.
NARRATOR: Bull sharks move in.
STEVE (over radio):
That’s a big shark.
What is that?
NARRATOR: One
of them is large.
around Big Bull’s size.
It’s not here
for the baitfish.
it’s here to eat
the other sharks.
STEVE: You might have a
bunch of baitfish that are
attracting little black tips.
Well. then those
might be bringing
in the big bull sharks
to feed on the
black tips in turn.
And so. you've got this
whole cascade that builds up.
from just the presence
of these little tiny fish
influencing huge
things like. like Big Bull.
STEVE (over radio) Lots
of sharks. lots of sharks.
Look at that.
That’s a big shark.
Look. that’s not a black tip.
A big bull shark.
NARRATOR: Steve transmits the
location to James and Neil.
STEVE (over radio):
Hey Neil. I’ve got
some coordinates for you.
NARRATOR: They’ll need
to move fast to catch
the mullet run in action.
This may be their best
chance of finding Big Bull.
Or it might prove Neil’s
theory that Big Bull has
given birth to other
Big Bull sharks.
But the skies
are no longer safe.
STEVE (over radio): I
got some clouds going in
from the. uh. northwest here.
NARRATOR: It’s a
record year for storms.
STEVE (over radio):
Hey Neil. looks like
you’ve got some weather
moving in towards
you right now.
NARRATOR: Kajiura
has no choice.
He has to land.
MAN (over radio):
Runway three to Kajiura.
STEVE (over radio): Roger.
MAN (over radio): Kajiura.
Good land. runway 3307.
NARRATOR: But Neil and
James aren’t giving up.
if they can find
Big Bull or her pups.
it will show hope
for the species.
JAMES (off-screen): Last night
we had lightening. thunder;
today we’ve got
that on the forecast.
so we want to get out
as quickly as possible.
NEIL (off-screen):
It's not looking pretty.
but I think it's
workable and you know.
we're just. we're
running out of time.
So we got to get out there.
NARRATOR: After an
hour of pounding they
finally reach the location.
JAMES: It’s been an absolute
epic journey to get out
of 10 to 12 feet swells.
But it’s definitely
worth it. we’re here now.
NARRATOR: It’s too
rough for scuba gear and
laser measuring devices.
They’ll free dive on the
outskirts of the mullet run.
and try to get DNA from
the largest bull sharks.
maybe Big Bull.
Big sharks.
But here the big
ones are lemon sharks.
Lemons are
formidable predators.
They’re assertive and
outnumber the bulls.
But nowhere near as
deadly and not what
Neil and James are after.
Then.
Bulls.
Two big ones.
One comes in fast.
Neil has his
probe in position.
but he must wait
for the right moment.
Bull’s eye!
JAMES (over radio): Nice shot!
NARRATOR: One down.
But they also want a sample
from the second larger shark.
It could even be
the queen of bull
sharks herself. Big Bull.
NARRATOR: But a gang of
lemon sharks moves in.
And one of them
locks in on James.
NARRATOR: Neil and James want
a biopsy from a shark down
below that may be Big Bull.
possibly the largest
bull shark in the ocean.
But a swarm of aggressive
lemon sharks pins them down.
One of them sees
James as a target.
James deflects an attack.
And covers their retreat.
JAMES: I think
that’s enough for now.
The lemons are
getting way too intense.
I think someone’s going
to get bit at some point.
My camera certainly did.
NEIL: We’re super lucky
that we got one biopsy because
those bulls were staying deep
and any time they came kind of
close the lemons would charge.
NARRATOR: It’s
just too dangerous.
They decide to call it.
But Toby has been
working on the DNA
they already collected.
And she has results.
Was Big Bull just
a freakish anomaly?
Or has she given rise to a new
generation of giants up and
down the Florida coast?
TOBY: We pretty
much expected to
get nothing. right.
I mean finding two
related sharks should be
like a needle in a haystack.
NEIL: Like a
huge ocean haystack.
TOBY: Huge haystack. and not
only did we find offspring
we found three
offspring of Big Bull.
NEIL: Are you kidding me?
JAMES: That’s and amazing
story. that’s good news.
TOBY: Yeah.
JAMES: So her offspring
are potentially off
the coast somewhere now.
TOBY: Not potentially.
they’re definitely there.
NARRATOR: The big question
is where were they found?
Is Big Bull having
pups in just one area.
or spreading her
DNA all over Florida?
NEIL: Where were
these offspring?
TOBY: Well a couple
of different places.
so we actually got
one at the shipwreck.
NEIL: No kidding
that’s deep water.
I mean those were
some big sharks.
TOBY: Yeah. those
were not baby sharks.
NARRATOR: The sharks they
sampled at the wreck were
around ten years old.
They could even be from
the litter Big Bull had
just before her
original capture in 2012.
TOBY: The second sample
came from Indian River Lagoon.
NEIL: From one of the
small sharks that we sampled?
That’s insane.
TOBY: I know.
I ran this data about
100 times because I. I thought
I had to be wrong.
NARRATOR: This is the pup.
WOMAN: Aw. he has
a tiny little mouth.
NARRATOR: Just a year old.
NEIL: It’s an
incredible specimen.
NARRATOR: And from
Big Bull herself.
which means it’s likely
Big Bull is still out there.
NEIL: This blows my mind.
I never expected to
be able to actually
identify offspring of Big Bull
suggesting that
she’s still not only
alive but reproducing.
Where else?
TOBY: Well the third offspring
was one of the big sharks that
was following the mullet run.
NEIL: That’s amazing.
NARRATOR: Four locations
off the Florida coast.
from Marathon where
she was captured.
to the wreck site. to
the mullet run area.
and all the way up to
the Indian River Lagoon.
at least a 200-mile range.
TOBY: The fact that we are
finding her offspring in these
different places shows that
she represents an important
biological linkage between
these different habitats.
NEIL: Incredible.
JAMES: So given that.
She’s potentially had many
children over her life time.
TOBY: Yeah. she may
have grandchildren or even
great grandchildren
out there somewhere.
JAMES: Awesome.
NARRATOR: There’s no sign yet
that Big Bull’s offspring are
any bigger than normal.
But there’s a lot of them.
And with any luck
they’ll have inherited
her knack for survival.
She also may
still be out there.
And a important matriarch
of an enormous family.
NEIL: Encountering
such a large shark.
for me. is actually
a sign of hope.
It means that this animal
was able to make it past all
the threats and
grow to be this size.
It also means there are
likely other big Bull Sharks
that are still out
there yet to be discovered.
NARRATOR: Neil may
never see Big Bull again.
but he has swum
with her children.
They have her DNA.
and given time.
one of them may also
claim the title of
the world’s
biggest bull shark!
Captioned by
Cotter Media Group.